[music]
Disney characters just give you the warm
and fuzzies. I don't know what it is.
>> No, they do. They're timeless. They've
been around for so long.
>> Who are your favorite characters?
>> Oh, I love Minnie. My daughter Eliza was
so happy when we'd go to the [music]
parks and she'd see Minnie. Classic.
Who's your favorite?
>> My favorite Ariel.
>> I feel like I always, you know, she was
curious. She finds her voice.
>> Yeah.
>> This is Disney.
But so is this.
>> This is the way.
>> And this
>> and even this.
>> I love a little chaos. [music]
In other words, Disney contains
multitudes. The company controls some of
the most valuable IP and distribution
channels in entertainment history and
ras in more than $90 billion [music] a
year.
Exterior daytime Los Angeles. Enter Dana
Walden, co-chair of Disney Entertainment
[music] and our guide to the Magic
Kingdom.
>> Our stories have appealed to kids for a
hundred years. The pull of a Disney
story is tremendous. She spent 26 years
at Fox, where she took the network from
fourth to first with hit shows like Glee
and Empire. [music]
And she's widely seen as one of
Hollywood's savviest executives with a
powerful web of talent relationships.
But even veterans like Walden are facing
challenges. [music] As revenues from
traditional TV and movie theaters
decline, studios are battling for market
share in the growing business of
streaming. On top of all that, political
challenges have put Disney and its
subsidiaries like ABC in the [music]
spotlight.
>> At what point did you realize this was a
problem?
>> When they pulled the show off the air.
The stakes are high for Disney and for
[music] Walden, who's one of a few
candidates with a shot at succeeding
longtime CEO Bob Iger. That [music]
would certainly be a fairy tale ending.
But first, she needs to help keep this
iconic brand from turning into a
pumpkin. Is the golden age of [music]
entertainment behind us, or is the best
still yet to come?
[music]
>> You grew up in LA.
>> I did.
>> What drew you to Hollywood? Well, it's
actually funny. I grew up about four
miles from here. My mom was in musical
theater. She was a performer and we
watched a lot of TV together as a
family. And then I remember when I was
12, my parents switched out the TV in
the living room and got a new one. And I
somehow convinced my mother to let me
put the old one in my room. I didn't
come out for about 5 years. [laughter]
>> You landed a PR job at 20th Century Fox.
>> I did. uh 1992.
>> Notwithstanding that I came in on the PR
side, I really had a passion for
storytelling and creativity. I oversaw
different businesses, but my heart was
really always with our television
studios, Chris Carter on the X Files,
you know, Jim Brooks on The Simpsons.
They really taught me how to understand
storytelling and production. and it led
to a 26-year career at Fox. So Netflix
kicks off the streaming boom. It takes
Disney 6 years to get into streaming,
launches Disney Plus in 2019, buys Fox
to try to catch up. That's when you
enter the scene.
>> Did you feel like you were starting from
behind? I didn't really. At the time, I
thought what an amazing opportunity to
join a company which is the gold
standard in storytelling. Bob was so
interested in acquiring those Fox assets
because we had many many seasons of the
types of shows that built the foundation
of Netflix subscriber base and Disney
Plus launched with I think 10 million
subscribers in the first 24 hours. What
makes you think consumers are going to
pay for this on top of everything else
they're already paying for? Disney,
Pixar, Marvel, Star Wars, National
Geographic.
>> So, we did not feel by any stretch that
we were behind.
>> Walden joined Disney as co-chair of the
entertainment division, focusing on TV
shows, while Alan Bergman oversees
feature films. But entertainment is only
one piece of the Disney empire. There's
also experiences, parks and cruises, and
sports, ESPN. And all of Disney's pieces
work together. Popular IP from
entertainment gets translated into
experiences and products, forming the
Disney flywheel, a uniquely powerful
system for generating revenue across the
company. So you oversee now one of the
largest creative portfolios in the world
between Hulu and Disney Plus and FX and
ABC.
How do you see all these pieces fitting
together inside the Disney universe? We
have such a vast array of stories and
when we think about our distribution
ecosystem, we think about it as an
integrated television business or an
integrated entertainment business. Which
leads to the question of our linear
channels. You know, live is really a
specialty of linear and of broadcast
television. And Dancing with the Stars
is up something incredible like 60%. And
I think that's a combination of we're
simal casting it across our streaming
services and ABC. Younger subscribers
are watching it on Disney Plus. We're
serving fans wherever they want to watch
our shows.
Overseeing such a broad array of shows
requires a certain [music] skill at
managing talent, hence the montage of
famous faces. Walden has helped bring
some of the biggest stars on Earth
[music] into the Disney versse.
Enter Megastar.
>> Hi.
>> Hi. How are you? Nice to see you all.
>> Bringing the Kardashians to Hulu was an
early coup for Walden's Disney tenure.
Their refreshed reality series, The
Kardashians, premiered on Hulu in 2020
and quickly became one of the streamers
biggest hits. Obviously, you had a long
and super successful run at NBC
Universal. What [music] does being
inside Disney make possible that wasn't
before? You get one free crazy VIP
Disney experience for every cast member
for free a year. [laughter]
Um, that's pretty amazing. But it's just
a great place to be. It's super
supportive.
>> You were looking for a new home for the
show and Disney and Dana Walton came
knocking. It was the next evolution of
us, maybe elevating our show, giving it
a different look, being able to continue
what we were doing, but having a
different experience.
>> What is Chris Jenner like in a
negotiation?
>> I think I'm tough, but I think I'm firm.
I'm direct. I think I know what we want
by now. Sometimes I I get a giggle when
an offer comes in and I'm able to, you
know, double what just came in at us
and, you know, kind of say, "See, I, you
know, I still might have it. You know,
mom still might have it." [music]
>> Kim Kardashian is also making her move
into scripted series, starring in Hulu's
All's Fair, a new legal drama from
prolific showrunner Ryan Murphy.
>> We'll make you full partner and a
multi-millionaire within 2 years.
[music]
The show hasn't exactly been a critical
darling, but it had a global press tour
and premiered to decent ratings. Ryan
Murphy came up with this concept just we
were brainstorming of a show to do and
he knew about my law school journey
[music] and thought that it would be the
best idea to come up with like an all
female cast of family law attorneys.
I know Ryan wanted to make sure that I
felt comfortable but a little outside of
my normal self. So, he really worked
hard to write a character that he knew
that I could play. [music]
I've just been that personality type
where I want to figure it out. I I
really do enjoy growing and learning.
When I stop is like when life will get a
little boring. I love a little chaos.
Murphy previously worked with Walden at
Fox, then landed a big deal making shows
for Netflix before Walden brought him
into the Disney fold.
>> You and Dana Walden go back to the
Niptuck days.
>> What's your relationship like with her?
>> In the case of like All's Fair, she read
every script. She gave me a lot of
notes, which you know I love. I love a
note. Well, I really don't. But she did
give me a lot of input. You know, I did
like seven different cuts of that pilot
for her because her thing with talent is
don't give up. It can always be better.
>> What's your approach to talent,
especially when you have to say no?
>> Well, saying no is very hard. You know,
these are people who I not only respect,
but I care about. In a lot of cases, a
fast no is the second best thing to a
yes because it enables great partners to
move on and find the thing that is going
to be explosive and can be a big hit.
Speaking of hits and misses, cue the
pence of music because Disney's
financials have had some of both lately.
Revenue for movies and linear TV has
been down. And while Disney's streaming
business turned a profit for the first
time in 2024, it's still well behind
Netflix.
Some of the critics would say that
Disney entertainment is in a tough spot.
[music] How do you see it? It depends
on, you know, what moment in time. We
are growing all of those important
metrics. I can't speak to whether
expectations keep being set beyond where
we're delivering, but the growth is
there. The competition is fierce between
Netflix and Apple and Amazon and
YouTube. Netflix is arguably the one to
chase. How are you different from
Netflix? Well, it's very clear Netflix
has done an extraordinary job and they
really have developed into a utility,
right? They in many situations, you
know, that is the place you go when you
don't know what you want to watch, but
you're going to watch TV. Would you say
there's a difference in terms of quality
versus quantity as well?
>> Oh, no question. No question. We've
never been in the quantity. You know,
we're not trying to create a fire hose
of content. We're trying to curate. That
said, Netflix shares are up 80 times
since the start of the streaming boom.
Disney shares have about doubled. And
Netflix's market cap is about twice the
size of Disney. What's your message to
investors? Both services can coexist and
I think we keep making quarterly gains
both in terms of revenue NOI in terms of
subscribers and engagement. Virtually
impossible to start from scratch and
it's also really difficult to do it
without that IP.
[music] Hard cut to interior hospital.
Well, a hospital set [music] anyway.
While traditional TV networks have
struggled lately, they're also home to
some enduring hits like ABC's Grey's
Anatomy.
>> So, tell me your symptoms.
>> The longrunning drama is now in its 22nd
season.
>> There's a Grey's elevator. Very [music]
famous. Elevators are very famous on
Grey's.
>> A lot of stuff happens in the elevator.
>> A lot of stuff happens on the elevator.
>> I mean, if I went down, would I want you
to be the one here?
>> No, you wouldn't. [laughter] No. But I
know a lot of doctors. I know who to
call. [music]
I don't know where the bodies are. We're
looking for the bodies.
Look.
Oh my god. Well, [music] I am
sufficiently horrified.
>> I have to tell you that that Gray's
night was the best night when I started
watching Grays.
>> Mhm. It's still Thursday.
>> It's still Thursday.
>> Thursday. I think we've been at every
time slot.
>> What's your take on this moment in time
in [music] Hollywood? There's so much
content out there, whether it's
television shows or Tik Tok or whatever
it is. So, [music] it's a lot harder to
grab an audience, to hold an audience.
And I think that's part of the [music]
success of Grace is that we did have
such a head start and we had such a
built-in audience that we've been able
to sustain even through all the noise
and all the content out there. Disney TV
is also leaning into more global stories
like FX's [music] Shogun in hopes of
pulling in more international audiences.
The show was FX's biggest hit ever.
Hiroyuki Sonata starred and produced,
helping the show stay true to Japanese
culture. What's your best samurai move?
>> More than fight, I like to draw the
sword because this is a very spiritual
moment than just fight.
>> Yeah.
[music] Did it feel like a risk?
>> Yes, of course. Our children had a 70%
Japanese dialogue.
>> That's uh risky. And Disney was a brave
company. [laughter]
>> Do you think Shogun's [music] success
might change how studios and streamers
approach risk?
>> I hope so. Streaming service changed
their audience as well.
>> [music]
>> They want to watch real story, drama,
authenticity.
[music]
>> Shogun has turned out to be a huge
success and you're trying to lean into
more global and and localized content.
What does that mean? You know, what
markets are on the table? What's off the
table?
>> Disney Plus is currently in over 150
countries. We are not producing local
originals in all of them. We are picking
key countries in each of the regions and
developing original content there.
>> Squid Game and The Crown are major hits.
Like Netflix does seem to be way ahead
in this area. Can you catch up?
>> Well, I think you can. I think you just
named two shows. We had a massive hit in
Korea with a show called Moving
>> that signed [music] up, you know,
millions of subscribers. So absolutely
the value of a hit continues to be very
meaningful.
>> You do have three separate apps between
Hulu and Disney Plus and ESPN. Is a
Disney Super app coming?
>> Yeah. You know what? We're on the path
to delivering that experience all in one
place and making sure that Disney Plus
is a place where the environment feels
like it is personalized and specific to
you. And that is the direction we're
moving because we think ultimately it's
easier. It reduces the friction.
>> So this is where the magic happens.
>> Welcome to TV animation where they do
such great work working on so many
shows. It's really where the magic
starts for our youngest fans.
>> You've spent your [music] life on studio
lots. Does it ever get old?
>> Never.
You're passing a stage where some iconic
film was shot and it's just delightful.
You're reminded of an industry that is
just served for many, many years to just
entertain people.
>> I grew up on Disney,
>> so much Disney. My kids often go to
YouTube first. How do you change that?
>> Well, are they going to YouTube and
engaging with Disney content? cuz I will
say we have
>> sometimes
>> a number of channels up on YouTube. We
want to be where [music] our fans are
and that means third party platforms
like Tik Tok, Instagram, obviously
YouTube.
Things like Bluey, things like Coco
Melon, that's not Disney IP. Does that
matter?
>> No. I think parents [music] enjoy it.
Kids love it. But the attributes of a
Disney story, beloved characters,
>> WHAT? IT WASN'T ME.
>> The music, it [music] fits in with our
IP. Every story doesn't have to be based
specifically on [music] our IP.
>> But all of these stories and characters
could take on a different meaning as
technology brings new challenges and
opportunities to the entertainment
[music] business. I've been wanting to
talk about AI. Obviously, this is like
the next big disruption. This is a
company that has prided itself on
storytelling for a hundred years and now
a computer is getting scary good at
doing a lot of things. In terms of our
premium stories and how we think about
AI either bending the cost curve or
helping us to be faster, more efficient.
We are approaching all of that together
with the actors, the writers, directors
who are our partners and have very
strong feelings about what is a uniquely
human story and how to protect the
contributors in that process. Bob talked
about being excited about the potential
for AI generated content on Disney Plus,
userenerated videos that people could
also watch. Is it still Disney magic if
it's AI created? Disney magic is
storytelling. It doesn't have to be any
one form. So I think it is the
fundamentals of a story are Disney. The
technology has evolved rapidly
throughout the history of the company.
Technology isn't the only pressure
weighing on Disney and its channels like
ABC.
In September, late night host Jimmy
Kimmel came under fire from the Trump
administration over remarks about
Charlie Kirk's assassination.
Walden and Bob Iger decided to suspend
Kimmel, then a few days later [music] to
reinstate him.
>> Anyway, as I was saying before I was
interrupted,
the episode raised concerns about the
industry's ability to stand up for free
speech and many of Hollywood's biggest
[music] names spoke out against Kimmel
suspension.
Let's talk about Kimmel. What happened
and what were the conversations between
you and Bob and Jimmy? We were thinking
about only one thing as we made that
decision very close to a show going back
up on that Wednesday and that was the
situation was extremely heated. We
wanted to take the temperature down. We
didn't think that was going to be
possible that night. So we hit pause to
have conversations with Jimmy. We wanted
to resolve the situation in a certain
way to protect our employees, to think
about our audience. Did President Trump
call you or Bob or vice versa? Did you
get any pressure from the White House?
>> He did not. We did not hear from them.
>> Mhm. There are reports that
cancellations of Disney Plus and Hulu
spiked after the incident. How do you
balance free speech and creative freedom
in a polarized climate?
>> Well, I think those reports were highly
exaggerated. You saw the number of
subscribers that we reported during our
earnings. We had a very strong quarter.
I think that this issue is firmly in our
past.
>> For Walden, [music] handling the Kimmel
crisis might have been good practice for
what could be her next role. Disney
[music] has clearly struggled with its
succession planning in the past.
>> Disney has considered a co-CEO structure
to replace Bob Iger.
>> What's the succession plan? What
progress has been made on a successor?
Will it be someone inside or outside?
Can you share any?
>> It'll be someone great.
>> The biggest story in Hollywood now is
who's going to be the [music] next CEO
of Disney. And you know, there are
pundits and analysts all over TV and
podcasts talking about who's in the lead
and you're one of the leading
candidates. So, they're often talking
about you. They're often pitting you
against your colleagues. What's it been
like for you on the inside? Well, being
pit against my colleagues, I don't
appreciate because we have incredible
relationships. We are a very tight
organization, but I have enormous faith
in where this company's going. There is
a worldclass team at this company who is
navigating the path into the future.
What is the future of Disney? The
company is so big, you might as well
ask, what's the future of entertainment?
[music]
It's a tricky question.
>> What's your hope for Grace? whatever
happens happens. I've long ago stopped
trying to predict [music] or hope what
happens.
>> I think the business has gotten harder
and I think that there are less
opportunities now and there are less
slots. We have been very traumatized by
the pandemic and I think by the strikes
and I think by the political climate and
I sort of feel that everybody is
unifying in a really beautiful way and
trying to make products that uplift and
unite. You have been at the center of so
many reinventions. You obviously TV,
streaming, now there's AI. What do you
think it's going to take to lead a
100red-year-old company into the next
century? Well, I think it's a lot of the
things we're doing right now.
understanding the consumer, being able
to personalize experiences, building out
our technology, product, creating
features again that are unique to this
IP that will delight people the same way
they are delighted when they go to our
parks.
Is the golden age of entertainment
behind us or [music] is the best still
yet to come?
>> Oh, I don't think it's behind us at all.
I think even in a world of AI more
premium are [music]
the best stories and the best live
experiences. I think we're going to
continue doing [music] that and it's
going to mean something to future
generations and especially to parents
who want to pass down that experience to
their own kids. [music]
>> So, the best is yet to come.
>> I think so. Absolutely.
>> [music]
>> and close. Yes.
>> And end and fade.